---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Journey of Thermal-Fluids
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-11-11
labels:
  - Engineering
---

As a child I was very fond of cooking. The first thing I started making was tea. I used to heat up the pot and sprinkle water droplets in the hot pot to watch them dance. I was very fascinated by the fact that heat could make something dance. I was always curious how this happens. As I pursued mechanical engineering I learned about heat transfer and I realized that the dancing was due to the Liednefrost effect. My journey for heat transfer and fluid mechanics began as a child by observing boiling and currently I am working on a research to utilize boiling for electronic cooling.


My passion towards Thermo-fluids attracted me to work on a research on Flow boiling. It has significantly enhanced my technical knowledge in flow-physics, multi-phase physics and electronic cooling as well as developed my trading skills by our teams ongoing effort of implementing this technology on a commercial level. It has also helped me improve my proficiency in writing technical proposals, industrial proposals, budget planning, patents and communicating with industrial and government personals to acquire funds. In Energy Exploration Laboratory, I have developed an innovative design of cooling cell which can passively cool electric vehicle batteries during ultra-fast charging. Working on this project has strengthened my knowledge of various Data acquisition tools, Phase Change Materials and Heat pipes. It gave me hands on experience in fabricating components using different manufacturing techniques like CNC machining, Lathe machining and brazing. This project experience has refined my interpersonal skills like teamwork, leadership, organizational abilities and working with great attention to detail. 

As electronic technology is getting advanced as well as compact, more heat is generated from a very short area which hinders the development of technology. My dream is to apply the knowledge of heat transfer and fluid mechanics to dissipate this heat and let there be a continuous advancement in technology without hinderance. To fulfill my dream, I opted to specialize in Thermo-fluids. The coursework significantly improved my understanding and enhanced my skillset. From the subject Advanced Heat Transfer I got an in-depth understanding of conductive and convective heat transfer with emphasis on empirical correlations and exact solution. The subject, Computational Fluid Engineering, gave me an understanding of the governing equations that drive every Thermo-fluid simulation software and introduced me to ANSYS Fluent. Computational Fluid Dynamics gave me the understanding of how to solve Thermal-fluids problems using numerical techniques. The course taught me MATLAB & C programming, grid generation and turbulence modeling. The course, Phase Change Two Phase Flows, took it to a next level where I learned the fundamentals of a system which exists in multiple phases. It also enhanced my simulation abilities to multiphase simulations. I was successfully able to implement all the knowledge I gained from the courses to complete various simulation/modeling projects.
